---
dg-publish: false
---


# Crank
1. **Ex-Zhentarim**. You were a former member of the Zhentarim thieves guild. You did dirty deeds in the past. Done for cheap, too. There are too many Zhentarim in Icewind Dale for you to know them all, but you do know _Naerth Maxildannar - the current Speaker of Targos_. Naerth seems to like you. He indirectly manages Icewind Dale's branch of the _Luskan Deliverers_, and he was the one who hooked you up with a straight shooter's gig after all. But like any good mob boss, the trust is thin as ice on the day of spring. - You have advantage on charisma checks with Naerth and his cronies. - You pick up on the hidden lingo of rogues and scoundrels, the _Thieves Cant_. Funny, though, you never seem to be able to speak it without goofing up. 

2. **Bacchanal Belly**. You're kinda a big deal at the taverns. Maybe it's the fey blood in you or perhaps your great-great-grandpapa laid a stone-gutted dwarf. In either case, you can drink the house down and perhaps tolerate other noxious substances with more grace than most.

# Tetro
1. **The Oracle**. While tracking the night sky, I saw/heard mystical signs in the sky and had visions of a cataclysmic meteor that was due to strike the glaciers of the north. I hoped this was several lifetimes ahead in the future, and set out to record better  observations in Icewind Dale near where I believed the impact could be.
2. **The Starseer**. In the several weeks before reaching the Ten Towns, I observed a falling star touch down over the Spine of the World.

# Azgul
1. **Brotherhood.** The wizard Dzaan gave you access to the Arcane Brotherhood Host Tower in Luskan a half year ago under his... supervision. That is, Dzaan saw potential in a shadow-pacted warlock, and as an exchange for knowledge, Dzaan embedded you with a Thayan mark of control. The mark is an arcane tattoo on your spine that allows him to use a bit of suggestion on you. His blood is woven into it, and it's this blood-link that gives it power. The mark otherwise gives you advantage on saving throws to being charmed, and makes you altogether immune to them within a mile of Dzaan.
- Dzaan is a Red Wizard of Thay, the cruel and powerful magocratic nation that lies in Eastern Faerun. He appears to be 30-40 years of age (but who knows) and was eagerly welcomed into the Brotherhood several years ago for both his Thayan experience in arcane experiments and his mastery of illusory magic.
- Your time in the Host Tower taught you about the Netherese, the ancient sky empire of magic. They are at least 1000 if not 2000 years old. You know they were brought to ruin, literally falling from the sky and undoing magic for centuries, as their mages attempted to parallel and perhaps fuse with the goddess of magic Mystra, but the exact story is only known to you in shards.
- You studied some Netherese etchings. The language is, understandably, hard to decipher, but you would recognize it at the least. In the last decade, artifacts have been discovered across Faerun. You (and Dzaan) know some may be buried in the tundra of Icewind Dale.
- The Arcane Brotherhood members have an oath to not directly harm each other. That being said, they often indirectly undermine and downright harm other members. Dzaan is not particularly cruel for a Thayan, but he has zero qualms about using others like tools.
- [optional] You feel like you "came to" a few days into the travel from Luskan towards IWD. Last you remember, you were with Dzaan in his study. Perhaps Dzaan found something and used his suggestion to send you North.

2. **Pact with Levistus** The pact you made to receive hexblade powers was done before meeting Dzaan and was not done in anticipation of the events of Icewind Dale to come... but fate has its own ways of working it seems. How you contacted this devil (or how they got in contact with you) is up to you, but the fiend's contract was simple: power in exchange for your soul upon its future demise. It's a steep price to pay for magic, but it's a quick road to power. Your lifelong obsession with the Netherese has convinced you, though, for better or worse, that you can out-fox your patron. You are absolutely convinced ancient magics will provide not only your kingdom but your escape - you can't forfeit your soul if you don't die, yes? and your patron will be empty-handed if they no longer can reach you, right? It's all or nothing, the way you see it. So, who is your patron? His name is Archduke Levistus. Your patron is the Lord of the Stygia, the frozen ocean that is the 5th Layer of the Nine Hells. You found yourself in a predicament, and Levistus gave you power for your eventual soul. Your pact isn't a chatty one, given his status. But he can and may contact you... you do owe him, after all


# Oona
1. **Littlest Yeti**. Not literally a yeti, but you were raised by Yetis, relying on them for food and warmth. While never adapting to the cold, you do speak Yeti and have advantage on charisma checks to influence yeti. 
2. **Forsaken Heir** to the nomad queen Bjornhild Solvigsdottir, leader of the Tiger Tribe of Reghed Glacier Nomads. Your mother discarded you, casting you into the Sea of Moving Ice as a child sacrifice to the Frostmaiden. You were saved by a shapeshifter nomad, a werebear you called called Oya, who dragged you from the sea and nursed you to health. You owe her your life.

# Hazel
1. **Owlbear whisperer.**. That baby owlbear really looked into your soul on the Ten Road pass, and you haven't been able to shake the feeling, both of guilt and of... something else. You felt unnaturally in tune with what the little thing was feeling, and it hasn't been the first time you've felt this connection to animals. You can use an action to make Animal Handling checks to change an Owlbear's attitude toward you from hostile to indifferent or from indifferent to friendly. 
2. **The Awakener.** You learned (at Monk University) of a druidic monk who ventured to the northernmost reaches of Icewind Dale. Your mentor Palar knew the monk before she took hermitage near the Sea of Moving ice. She was said to have achieved oneness with the sea itself. Palar believes you are her reincarnation, and if it's true, you will find the path yourself.

# Fern
1. **Revel Rebel.** Greetings, operative. My name is Varrin Axebreaker. We of Clan Axebreaker have located wealth stolen from us many years ago. It is, unfortunately, sealed in a vault that’s magically locked. If you can recover the key—whatever it is—you’ll gain the undying gratitude of Clan Axebreaker. And I’ll cut you in for a percentage of the recovered treasure, of course. A prisoner incarcerated within the prison Revel’s End knows how to access the vault. This quest, should you choose to undertake it, requires you travel to the prison, infiltrate it, and learn how to access the treasure from the prisoner. Our contact in Neverwinter will field your questions, including whether you'd prefer to travel by sea or over the Spine? We could arrange for your passage with the merchant caravan known as the Luskan Deliverers, as land travel seems safest with this infernal winter. - Varrin, Stonesworn of Clan Axebreaker.



# Cleaned up:
- **The Starseer**. Several weeks before reaching the Ten Towns, you observed a falling star touch down over the Spine of the World.
- **The Oracle**. While tracking the night sky, you saw/heard mystical signs and had visions of a cataclysmic meteor that was due to strike the glaciers of the north.
- **Bacchanal Belly**. You're kinda a big deal at the taverns. Maybe there's fey blood in you or perhaps your great-great-grandpapa bedded a stone-gutted dwarf. In either case, you can drink the house down and tolerate other noxious substances with more grace than most.
- **Ex-Zhentarim**. You were a former member of the Zhentarim thieves guild. There are too many in Icewind Dale for you to know them all, but you do know Naerth Maxildannar - the current Speaker of Targos. Naerth seems to like you. You get advantage on persuasion and insight checks with Zhentarim you identify.
- **Brotherhood.** The wizard Dzaan gave you access to the Arcane Brotherhood Host Tower in Luskan a half year ago under his... supervision. In exchange, Dzaan embedded you with a Thayan mark of control that allows him to use Suggestion on you.
- **The Awakener.** You learned of a monk who ventured to the northernmost reaches of Icewind Dale in druidic pursuits at the Sea of Moving Ice. Your mentor knew the monk before she took hermitage and believes you are her reincarnation.
- **Revel Rebel.** Greetings, operative. My name is Varrin Axebreaker. We of Clan Axebreaker have located wealth stolen from us many years ago. It is, unfortunately, sealed in a vault that’s magically locked. If you can recover the key—whatever it is—you’ll gain the undying gratitude of Clan Axebreaker. And I’ll cut you in for a percentage of the recovered treasure, of course. A prisoner incarcerated within the prison Revel’s End knows how to access the vault. This quest, should you choose to undertake it, requires you travel to the prison, infiltrate it, and learn how to access the treasure from the prisoner. Our contact in Neverwinter will field your questions, including whether you'd prefer to travel by sea or over the Spine? We could arrange for your passage with the merchant caravan known as the Luskan Deliverers, as land travel seems safest with this infernal winter. - Varrin, Stonesworn of Clan Axebreaker.
   