---
dg-publish: false
---

Start in Bryn Shander. Railroad your party onto the west side of Ten Towns, introduce Vellynne after A Beautiful Mine and then draw the party to the eastern towns.

Vellynne Harpell can be easily introduced after A Beautiful Mine. Termalaine's speaker, [[Oarus Masthew]] is already short on funds in trying to keep his position and hold the mining town together after kobold and grell incidents in the mine. Thus, while the mine quest is offered by Oarus, the benefactor funding the enterprise is Vellynne. This tracks with the Harpell family fortune. When your players clear the gem mine, have Oarus offer them room and board for the night while he inspects the mine the next morning before delivering payment. What players don't realize is that Vellynne accompanies Oarus on this visit, searching the mine for any clues of Netherese artifacts. Oarus, of course, does not know Vellynne's true intentions, but may note that she seemed disappointed, as if she was searching for something and insisted they investigate to the bottom-most layer of the mine. If your party slayed any kobolds, Vellynne has since resurrected them. These are her undead kobold minions that the book presents. When your party meets Oarus in the morning, Vellynne may be present or may be walking away from Oarus as your party approach, giving a nod of recognition to the adventurers for clearing the mine. If confronted, Vellynne thanks the party for their efforts (and for her new minions). When pressed, she might note she is loading up her sled to head towards [[Easthaven]], hearing rumors that [[Dzaan]] is in over his head. She is looking to capitalize on his predicament, aiding her colleague in return for knowledge of Dzaan's recent discovery of the Netherese spindle. it's up to you whether she gleans any information, but this sets up Vellynne as a neutral party that may be encountered at Dzaan's demise in Easthaven.